> "We see three critical differences between programming and software engineering: time, scale, and the trade-offs at play. On a software engineering project, engineers need to be more concerned with the passage of time and the eventual need for change. In a software engineering organization, we need to be more concerned about scale and efficiency,both for the software we produce as well as for the organization that is producing it. Finally as software engineers, we are asked to make more complex decisions with higher-stakes outcomes, often based on imprecise estimates of time and growth. Within Google, we sometimes say, "Software engineering is programming integrated over time." Programming is certainly a significant part of software engineering: after all, programming is how you generate new software in the first place. If you accept this distinction, it also become clear that we might need to delineate between programming tasks (development) and software engineering tasks (development, modification, maintenance). The addition of time adds an important new dimension to programming. Cubes aren't squares, distance isn't velocity. Software engineering isn't programming."
>
> *Titus Winters, Software Engineering at Google*

São diferenças cruciais que diferenciam o papel essencial de cada papel. Embora o desenvolvedor seja focado mais na parte do desenvolvimento e toda a criação do projeto em si, o engenheiro de ‘software’, além de fazer o mesmo que o desenvolvedor, acaba tendo mais tarefas além do próprio processo de criação, tais como manutenção, melhorias, e qualquer outra decisão que esteja além do código e projeto. Ou seja, a principal diferença entre o desenvolvedor e o engenheiro de ‘software’, é que o desenvolvedor pensa no tempo atual do projeto, e o engenheiro de ‘software’ pensa, além disso, no tempo, na escala e nos trade-offs.

